All right.
And this video we want to talk about the re-active manifesto.
So this was originally published in 2013 and you can go over to w w w re-active manifesto dot org to
read it in its complete form.
Some interesting authors there you have John Boehner.
He's the co-founder cause a pretty cool library folks and a lot of big scale distributed type systems.
Dave Farley Roland Kohn And Martin Thompson I want to point out that the term the act of is really getting
overloaded in the community there's a lot of misinformation out there I guess you could say a lot of
confusion about what is and what isn't or act of it's kind of a becoming a real buzz word right now.
So there are several reactive paradigms out there that we need to clarify.
So in this presentation I'm referring to reactive systems and this is an architecture and design pattern
and you'll see like cloud native and cloud based applications so that type of systems think large scale
self-healing systems like Google's G-mail is a great example or Amazon.com obviously a very active system
they do not go down on Black Friday sales events and an act of programming is much more granular is
focusing on that based it's asynchronous non-blocking programming techniques focus on handling an event
and that event would probably be with an a reactive system so reactive system is a much more broader
concept.
We're looking at how you're laying out your servers anti-earmark Micro's services whether you're not
you're using messaging or big monolithic application.
So it's more at the architecture level what react programming is a technique that you're using to code
in now functional reactive programming is also a buzzword.
You're hearing a lot of functional buzz right now especially in the Java community on the heels of Java
8.
The founders one of the founders of the re-active manifesto believes that functional programming is
definitely misused right now by a lot of libraries that are claiming to be functional reactive programming
libraries when in fact they're more active programming.
I'm not going to get into the nuts and bolts of that just want to make you aware that there is disparity
in the community about what is functional react to programming and react to programming so some people
believe is a functional model and doing reactively you are now doing FRB but not necessarily the case.
So let's take a look at the re-active manifesto.
This is going to be looking at four areas and this is an image adopted right off their Web site responsive
resilient message driven elastic.
So let's take a little closer look to what each one of those means.
So responsive means that the system's going to respond in a timely manner and responsiveness is the
cornerstone of usability and utility in it.
Not sure if everybody understands what cornerstone means.
A lot of times when you're building an old building or an old architectural style as you set down a
cornerstone which became the stone that you built upon the entire building so that's what that connotation
means in a broader sense so that might get lost in other communities outside the US and Europe responsiveness
also means that problems may be detected quickly and dealt with affectively.
So this means that this system is going to effectively be self-healing so all responses systems also
provide rapid response times and this consistent behavior simplifies error handling and builds and user
confidence and encourages further interaction.
So think about if you're using like Facebook and you're on Facebook and usually Facebook works pretty
consistent for me.
But there is time so slow and I get frustrated with that and it's usually when I'm on my mobile and
have a bad data connection.
So having a consistent responses.
Important for your end users so resilient so systems SES response in the face of failure.
So resilience is achieved by replication containment isolation and delegation and then failures are
contained within a component.
So you don't want a single part of the system failing and taking down the whole system.
So recovery is delegated to another and that means there is redundancy in the system so there's no single
point of failure in the system and high availability ensured by replication where necessary.
So it's be like if you're running a rabbit MQ server you'd be running in a cluster so that the nose
and the cluster could go down.
Or if you have Micro's services you're going to have the load balanced against multiple nodes that Microcircuits
an elastic.
So the system stays responsive uttering varying workload.
So reactive systems can react to changes to the input rate by increasing or decreasing resources allocated
to those service inputs.
And they asked Chief the less sticky on cost effective platform so using commodity hardware and software
and Amazon dotcom was a great example of this because they do run a lot of nodes behind Amazon.com but
both Amazon and Google are well known for using commodity hardware.
So just the chief of servers that they can find and they structure their system so that that people
server can go down and it doesn't matter because they have other things to back it up.
And then also Google is the founder of Cooper Noddy's and within Kooper Nettie's and you can look at
the workload and say OK well I want three notes of this running but if it starts getting busy if the
CPA goes above X bring on additional nos to handle the load so it will automatically scale in response
to that load.
And when that load goes away then that will scale down as well.
So having this dynamic scaling is important and while it's doing this the system will stay responsa.
So for the end user the user experience is the same depending on if there's five users 5000 50000.
The experience for each user is going to be the same in those now this is probably one of the more important
parts for us as far as being Java developers.
Reactive systems are message driven and we rely on asynchronous message passing to establish a boundary
between components.
So this is going to ensure loose coupling isolation and location transparency so message passing also
knew it was load management plasticity and flow control.
So this makes it important because now you have a distributed system and you're passing messages.
So if you're sending a message and just for clarity a message can be going over like rabbit MQ Damus
brokers such as academic.
You can even be a web service call because you are posting the contents of a message to rest and point.
So the message passing you can take a number of different forms but the concept means the same as that
you're passing some chunk of data whether it's Jason ex-model realized object you're passing that message
across some boundary to another system that's going to act on it and location transparent messaging
means that you're not dependent on server a talking to server B you're going from message group cluster
of micro services a to a cluster of micro surfaces be that you're not concerned about the specific server.
So this is important architectural shift and then the nonblocking communication allows recipients to
consume only resources while active.
And that this is also important so if you have say a message queue you can have a consumer come up and
you can have one consumer in five consumers so you can dynamically take that and that consumers they're
not active aren't going to be adding it to the overall system load.
Now I sold this diagram right from a hipster guys because I think it's really good when we hear the
term cloud native spring guys definitely I like to talk about cloud native and this is a good overview
of what that involves.
Netflix has been a huge contributor to the components within spring cloud so there's a lot of cool stuff
there.
And what we have is a distributed architecture probably going to be deployed in darker containers.
There's a number of different ways of managing those containers.
Cooper net is one that I mentioned Dockers swarm as another there's Patchi I think is mesos.
So there's a number of different ways of managing this.
And then there's different ways of using like Zoul and Ricca.
You can just pull up these nodes and you could manually do it with these.
So now you have a truly distributed application here so if you're not familiar with a spring micro surfaces
what's going to happen here is if I deploy a micro service that's going to wake up go out to what you
see in the diagram as a hipster registry and get its configuration from a spring cloud config and then
register itself with the Eureka server.
So it says OK I'm this micro service here I am on this IP address and node.
Now the Zuel proxy is also in communication with the Greek server.
QUEST comes in through the gateway and it knows to route to that note that Microcircuits.
Now that Microcircuits can go down that box that's running I could get terminated and you could bring
up another Micro's service on another box.
And the process would go through the same where.
Now it's registered again or they reach a server and gets this configuration.
So I would say you're going to be running multiple notes on those micro services.
So now any time those Michod services can fail a node could fail and the system is now self-healing
because now you have that redundancy there and it's also very scalable this way so as different services
become hotspots you can spool up additional nodes.
And what's important to read architecture like this is that it is elastic.
Do you see the log slashing cabana.
This is quite a bit different from having a big monolithic application where you have one spot to go
look at the logs on.
Now you could have dozens if not hundreds of nodes out there each collecting logs.
That's why you use something like phone log stash.
So this is a distorted architecture you can see that what I have here is much more broad in terms of
entire system architecture and purposes courses look more granular at Spring 5.
And what's going on in censoring.
Now re-active programming is very important and is a useful implementation technique.
So now we're going from the overall system architecture with reactive systems down to reactive program
which is like the individual nodes in a micro server so one is broad and one is very granular reactive
programming focuses on nonblocking asynchronous execution.
And this is a very important characteristic of over all reactive systems.
At the end of the day reactive programming is just one tool in building reactive systems.
So I think it's a goal we all have very fast very reliable systems.
It's important to understand the distinction here so one has an overall architecture.
But we're going to be diving into reactive programming which is an implementation technique of a very
granular service.